---
title: "Classification-based prediction of network connectivity robustness"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/WU2022NN
excerpt: ''
date: 2022-10-12
venue: 'Neural Networks'
paperurl: ''
citation: 'Yang Lou, <b>Ruizi Wu</b>, Junli Li, Lin Wang, Chang-Bing Tang, Guanrong Chen. Classification-based prediction of network connectivity robustness. Neural Networks. Volume 157, 2023, Pages 136-146.'
---

**Abstract**
Today, there is an increasing concern about malicious attacks on various networks in society and
industry, against which the network robustness is critical. Network connectivity robustness, in
particular, is of fundamental importance, which is generally measured by a sequence of calculated
values that indicate the connectedness of the remaining network after a sequence of attacks by means
of node- or edge-removal. It is computationally time-consuming, however, to measure and evaluate
the network connectivity robustness using the conventional attack simulations, especially for largescale networked systems. In the present paper, an efficient robustness predictor based on multiple
convolutional neural networks (mCNN-RP) is proposed for predicting the network connectivity robustness, which is an natural extension of the single CNN-based predictor. In mCNN-RP, one CNN works
as the classifier, while each of the rest CNNs works as an estimator for predicting the connectivity
robustness of every classified network category. The network categories are classified according to
the available prior knowledge. A data-based filter is installed for predictive data refinement. Extensive
experimental studies on both synthetic and real-world networks, including directed and undirected
as well as weighted and unweighted topologies, verify the effectiveness of mCNN-RP. The results
demonstrate that the average prediction error is lower than the standard deviation of the tested data,
which outperforms the single CNN-based framework. The runtime in assessing network connectivity
robustness is significantly reduced by using the CNN-based technique. The proposed mCNN-RP not only
can accurately predict the connectivity robustness of various complex networks, but also provides an
excellent indicator for the connectivity robustness, better than other existing prediction measures


*Key words: Complex network, Connectivity Robustness, Convolutional neural network, Prediction*

[Download paper here](http://Artorias-ruizi.github.io/files/Wu2022NN.pdf)

